# Using the AcuteLoot API

The AcuteLoot API allows you to develop plugins that extend
or utilize certain AcuteLoot features.

To use the API, you should first add either a hard or soft
dependency on AcuteLoot to your plugin.yml. Use a hard depend
if your plugin requires AcuteLoot to function (for example, a
set of new effects for loot). Use a soft depend if your plugin
does not require AcuteLoot, but can provide further content if
AcuteLoot is present (for example, an economy plugin that can
provide different prices for loot of different rarities). Now
you can simply add the AcuteLoot jar to your development setup
and access API functions through the acute.loot.API class.

If you are using a soft dependency, you must take further
care to isolate any references to AcuteLoot classes to classes that
will only be loaded if AcuteLoot is present on the server.

The API class takes a Plugin object (your plugin) and a 
"namespace string" as parameters. The namespace string should
be a unique identifier for your plugin, it must be at least
two characters long, may not end or start with a dash, and
consist only of uppercase letters and dashes. Note that the
namespace string used as a parameter to the API must match the
namespace string used in any custom effects registered through
your plugin.

See the api_example/ directory for a 
complete demo plugin using the AcuteLoot API.

Javadocs for released versions are available under the 
GitHub releases section, or may be generated by building the
plugin from source.
